---
layout: post
title: Day Six - Starting remote work and more notes on Rust
---

Okay, so I missed blogging Day Five. Suffice it to say that I thoroughly took advantage of my last day socializing in the physical Hub. 

Fast-forward to today (Monday) - I've flown back to Seattle, reintegrated with family life, and now I'm starting to work remotely. This was a harder landing than I expected. I had forgotten how tiring it is to work from home.

Possible causes: 
- Lack of the fun people energy that I experienced at the RC hub. 
- Parenting takes a physical toll. 
- Constant visual reminders of household/admin tasks that haven't gotten done are wigging me out. 
- I'm in my home office, where I'm accustomed to doing my paid employment, and I'm repeating unhelpful behavioral patterns from work. 
- The weather in Seattle is just plain demoralizing.

To do: think more closely about which of these factors I can change. 

## More notes on Rust: 

It's funny to read the Rust book and other sources without knowing any other lower-level programming languages, because everything is written from the perspective of solving the problems of C++ programmers. It just paints such a vivid picture of their anguish in C++  and (one assumes) relief at working in Rust. 

- The borrow checker seems like a lot of work to supposedly make my life easier. This is going to take a while to get used to.
- Is one of the reasons Python is so slow that it's constantly having to allocate and deallocate memory for lists / dynamic arrays? 
- I like the "permissions" terminology because it reminds me of my existing mental model of permissions in a filesystem.
- Wait, don't introduce a new permission (flow), I had just gotten used to the first three! 
- Liked the insight that I've also worked with memory/references in Python, it's just mostly abstracted away. I seem to remember occasional issues with .copy() that could be solved by using .deepcopy(), but I rarely had occasion to use these in the first place. 
- In Rustlings, it's extra satisfying that rust-analyzer also gets less angry in the VSCode file explorer panel the more exercises you complete! 